[THEME MUSIC]
>>WILLIAM HENRY: Hello.
I'm William Henry.
Welcome to "The Awakened Soul."
Greek mythology is loaded
with insights about the soul,
ascension, and the light body.
In particular, the story
of Prometheus and Athena
provides the basis for many of
today's ideas about ascension.
For the ancient
Greeks, man was created
by Prometheus, who was
a member of the earliest
race of giants called Titans.
These were the mighty ones,
who were called Nephilim
in the book of Genesis
and are believed to be
responsible for the flood.
Some
Believe the evidence shows these
beings are 9 to 12 feet tall.
And there is evidence
that these giants even
made their way to North
America, particularly
to West Virginia,
Ohio, and Tennessee.
This is a very
distinct possibility.
And I've done my own share
of chasing their secrets
in my backyard in Nashville.
I believe they are real beings.
However, I also
know that they were
called mighty ones, due to
a cloak or garment that they
possessed.
It gave them
consciousness powers
that gave them the
Appalachian, the mighty ones.
Seeking the bones of
giants is one thing,
but seeking the powers of
their cloak and other apps
is another.
And that's our game.
Prometheus rebelled against the
gods by first saving humanity
and then by bringing humans
light or enlightenment
and the secrets of
ascension, which he learned
from the goddess Athena.
During the days of Plato,
three centuries before
the time of Jesus, the
play "Prometheus Bound"
was often performed.
He was considered to be another
in a long line of saviors
of humanity, great
prophets who were
known as the Sons of
the Flame of Wisdom.
Prometheus saved humanity by
teaching man to stand upright,
according to the Greeks.
He is the missing link between
Neanderthals and modern humans.
Prometheus was the one to
create the human body out
of the clay of Earth.
He did this after the
great deluge, or flood,
had wiped out humankind.
This is the biblical flood
which some believe corresponds
to the destruction of Atlantis.
So the story of
Prometheus is actually
the story of the repopulating of
the world after this cataclysm
and against the wishes of Zeus.
In other words, it's the
story of our rebel race.
In the story,
Prometheus traveled
to the heart of the
golden sun, where
he stole fire, the means
of life, from Mount Olympus
and gave it to mankind,
also against Zeus wishes.
Zeus then punished
Prometheus for his crime
by having him bound to a
rock while a great eagle ate
his liver every day, only
to have it regenerate
to be eaten again the next day.
Zeus anger towards
Prometheus is in turn
responsible for mortal man's
having to provide for himself.
Before, all of man's needs had
been provided for by the gods.
According to the German
classicist Karl-Martin
Dietz in Hesiod's
scriptures, Prometheus
represents the
descent of mankind
from the communion with the gods
into the present, troublesome
life.
The Judeo-Christian
equivalent of this myth
is Lucifer, who has brought
the gift of consciousness
to humanity.
So Prometheus is very
much with us today,
and I believe he's rising.
Writers who express
caution about
the over-enthusiastic embrace
of new super technologies,
such as Michael
Sandel, who worries
about human enhancement
and genetic engineering,
and Clive Hamilton, who
worries about geoengineering,
sometimes warn us about
the Promethean Attitude,
or the Promethean Urge.
I worry about the rise
of technology, too.
We're all now chained
together by the internet,
which is also the new rock
upon which our world is built.
I believe that the way
we get off the rock
is to realize that the
crucified Titan Prometheus is
none other than the divine
spark, the divine flame
within the heart of
every human being, who
was held captive and tortured
by all that would obliterate
or diminish the indwelling
spiritual divinity.
The cosmic drama and
struggle of Prometheus
to become unbound from the
rock is enacted each day
by every soul on Earth.
The divine flame that
Prometheus stole from heaven it
is the divine ray, or spark.
It's the soul.
And it's chained now
to the rocky Earth
and is tortured,
eaten alive, by life.
The way out of Earth life
is not to attain immortality
by implanting machines within
us and becoming Promethean.
Achieving immortality will only
keep the eagle pecking at us
for longer.
The way out of Earth life
this to attain illumination
and to ascend.
In the story, Prometheus
makes the human body,
while the goddess
Athena looks on.
Athena, the goddess of
wisdom, daughter of Zeus,
in this painting
waits to blow a soul
into the lifeless human form.
This is a common
pattern repeated
in many creation mythologies.
Our soul was breathed into
the body by a divine being,
in this case Athena.
Athena is the one who not
only gave us our soul,
but also gives the
newborn soul wisdom.
What kind of wisdom?
A clue is found in this
statue of golden Prometheus
stealing fire in front of
Rockefeller Center in New York
City.
It is the most
photographed sculpture
in all of New York,
maybe even the world.
It's certainly one of the
world's most famous sculptures.
Sculpted by Paul
Manship in 1934,
the golden Prometheus
is seen as he descends
from Mount Olympus,
fire in hand,
encircled by the ring of
the zodiac, which can also
be seen as a radiant ring of
cosmic sovereignty, a vibration
possessed by the gods.
Flanking the statue
of Prometheus
are Youth and Maiden.
These are the first
humans created
by Prometheus out of clay.
Its central theme and the
clue to Athena's wisdom
is stated in the quote that
is carved in the red granite
wall behind him.
Taken from the 6th century
BC dramaticist as Aeschylus,
it reads, "Prometheus,
teacher in every art,
brought of fire that
had proved to mortals
a means to mighty ends."
So Prometheus is
credited with bringing
the art of civilization to
humanity and a special fire,
or light, that provided
the means to mighty ends.
This refers to attaining
the mighty powers
of the giants, the mighty
powers of enlightenment.
The spiritual or soul
powers are referred
to as the powers of the Titans,
the mighty ones, or the giants.
And these are the
soul apps, or powers,
we discussed in a
previous episode.
Through this public
art, John D. Rockefeller
sought to send a
Titanic message.
It's an example of what I call
Stargate Art, or the ascension
code, found in
artworks on display
in the great cities
of the world.
By seeing and decoding
the mystical references
behind the symbols, we can find
hidden secrets of ascension
hidden in plain sight.
After Prometheus
stole fire, Zeus
sent Pandora in retaliation
for saving humankind,
who Zeus sought to
obliterate with the flood.
Zeus ordered Hephaestus,
the Greek god of alchemy
and technology, to create
Pandora, or fashion her out
of clay, and brought her
to life by the four winds,
with all the goddesses of
Olympus assembled to adorn her.
From her is the race of women
and femalekind, Hesiod writes.
We need to know
that Hephaestus is
the Greek version of the
Sumerian god of technology,
Enki, who is shown
here enthroned.
He's also the same as
the Egyptian Ptah, who
is credited with fashioning
the human body in Egyptian myth
and is also responsible
for creating
all those amazing ancient
Egyptian technologies.
Zeus gave Pandora a box or a
jar, likely made by Hephaestus,
that she was not
allowed to open.
This box was filled with
misfortunes, diseases,
and plagues, while at the bottom
of the box there was also hope.
According to mythologist
Barbara Walker,
the box was actually a pithos,
or a jar filled with blessings,
and will be familiar to
readers of the story of Mary
Magdalene and her alabaster
jar containing the Resurrection
oil called christos, or
chrism, that produced
the light body of Jesus.
For ages, humans did
not know their soul
was the gift of Athena, or for
that matter what to do with it.
Prometheus then
came from the stars
and lived among
humans to instruct us,
to give us the tools for
living and for awakening
our spiritual powers within.
During the Italian Renaissance
of the 15th century,
we witnessed a revival
in interest in Prometheus
and the secret of
our soul's origins.
Masilio Ficino updated
the Prometheus myth.
Ficino can rightly be thought of
as the father of the modern New
Age movement.
He combined elements from
different religious traditions
to unify early Christianity
and ancient mystical knowledge,
especially that of Egypt.
He championed the power
of the imagination
and the raising
of consciousness.
His work on the
immortality of the soul
gives us an idea
of his life's goal.
Ficino uniquely read
the Prometheus myth
as an image of the human soul
seeking to obtain supreme truth
and the secret of returning
to our soul source and divine
origin.
We're talking about the
light body in ascension here.
And as Olga Raggio
summarizes Ficino's text,
"The torture of
Prometheus is the torment
brought by reason itself to man,
who is made by it many times
more unhappy than the brutes.
It is after having stolen one
beam of the celestial light
that the soul feels as
if fastened by chains,
and only death can
release her bonds
and carry her to the
source of all knowledge."
This is the torment
of the awakened soul.
By awakening, having stolen one
beam of the celestial light,
we realize our predicament.
Before our awakening,
we don't know
we are divine sparks
in chains on Earth.
But after seeing the light, we
want to return to our source,
but we realize there are
challenges on our path.
After the writings of
Ficino about Prometheus,
interest in the Titans
shifted considerably
in the direction of becoming
subject matter for painters
and sculptors alike.
Now, Prometheus
becomes the model
for a new man who points us in
the right direction-- heaven.
Prometheus ascends to the sky
under the guidance of Minerva,
the Roman name for Athena.
And together, they soar
heavenward to the fire source,
to the source of our souls.
As Prometheus ascends,
in his right hand
he holds the pit of a fennel
stalk, which Hessia tells he
carried back ablaze with life.
In the center of the
painting is a chariot,
pulled by two
dragon-like creatures.
This symbolizes
Prometheus' theft of fire
from the chariot of the
sun, anchored in mid-sky.
Plato described the
soul as the charioteer,
and the soul must keep the
dragons going the same way.
Plato also describes
the great circuit,
which souls make as
they follow the gods
in the path of enlightenment.
This chariot is the
ascension vehicle,
or ark throne of the gods.
Otherwise known as the
merkabah throne chariot,
it is the soul's vehicle.
This celestial vehicle can be
thought of as a mobile throne.
We have mobile phones.
What we really want to
acquire is the mobile throne.
This is the soul's ultimate app.
And in my view,
as we established
in previous episodes, it is
the same as the rainbow light
body, unbound like
Prometheus, the wings
of the angelic light body carry
our soul through the cosmos.
It was Athena who gave us this
ultimate wisdom of the soul.
In Egyptian mythology, her name
is Isis, which means throne,
as in the throne chariot.
Athena's temple, the Parthenon,
located on the Acropolis
in Athens, Greece, was
Athena's temple of wisdom.
400 years before Mary,
Athena was the Virgin Queen.
I'd like to spend a few
moments with you now
exploring with you a copy of
the Parthenon in my backyard,
Nashville, Tennessee.
People worldwide know Nashville
as Music City USA, Tone Town,
Twang Town, etc.
Less well known is the
fact that Nashville
is the only city in the world
with copies of two healing
temples from the
ancient world, and both
are temples of ascension.
In 1897, the state of
Tennessee celebrated
100 years of statehood.
Because Nashville was called
the Athens of the South,
her fair people built a
re-creation of the Parthenon
to commemorate the centennial.
The attraction was so popular
that a permanent structure
was built in the 1920s.
Accurate to an
eighth of an inch,
this museum, as it was called,
is actually a scale replica
of Athena's Temple of Wisdom.
It is a jewel in the
heart of Nashville.
In addition to Music
City, Nashville
is also known as the
buckle of the Bible belt,
due to the enormous
Bible-publishing
industry found here.
"Seeing the light" is also
a big part of country music.
The interesting
thing about this is
that when the
Parthenon was built
in Nashville in the
1920s, another temple
was also constructed nearby.
This one is located
on a hill downtown,
next to the Tennessee
State capital.
Inside is a magnificent
statue of the Roman god Mars.
I call this hill Mars Hill, and
this temple the Temple of Mars.
It's clear that the
city forefathers
wanted to link modern
Nashville to ancient Athens,
in particular, Athens
at the time of Jesus
and the apostle Paul, who
also famously saw the light.
In circa 35 AD, a man
named Saul of Tarsus
was on his way to
Damascus when suddenly
a Promethean bright light from
heaven flashed around him.
The resurrected Jesus was in
that light in his light body
form.
Saul was blinded by the light.
After three days, his
vision was restored,
and Saul became
Paul, a preacher.
In a flash, a Promethean
flash, Paul was born again.
And Paul's awakened
soul was introduced
to a new reality
in which beings can
turn their flesh into light
and open holes in the fabric
of spacetime-- wormholes.
With the opening
came a burst of love
that made Paul
realize he is part
of a creation beyond his
earthly comprehension.
This is exactly what
happened to the Buddha,
and this is the
meaning of the Dorje
in the hand of Padmasambhava.
After his experience on
the road to Damascus,
Paul went to Athens to tell the
story of the resurrected man
Jesus.
And he noted that
Athens was a pagan city
and that it had several temples.
He specifically
listed the Parthenon
and the Temple of Mars.
In fact, Paul was preaching
about the new resurrected man
from Mars Hill.
Clare and I lived beside
this magnificent temple.
We travel a lot, and
it's also very special
to come home to this spot
of solace and healing.
I visit it every day I'm
home on my daily walk.
It's my place of
meditation and reflection.
I sit on the Parthenon
steps and give thanks
for all the experiences that
have made up my hologram.
And I'm sure you have a spot
like that you return to again
and again like a touchstone.
One of my favorite
spots is found
on each end of the
Parthenon, where
we find the largest matched set
of bronze doors in the world.
They weigh 8 and 1/2 tons each.
The matched set of
lions on these doors
symbolize the lion's gate,
or the path of ascension.
These doors of initiation
are almost never opened.
But one day, a band was
shooting a music video,
and the doors were open,
revealing the tallest
indoor statue in the Western
world, a 42-foot-tall statue
of Athena covered
in 24-carat gold.
She is the goddess
of wisdom who holds
the angel of victory, Nike.
This is the victorious soul.
And by the way, that statue
is 6 feet 4 inches tall
and weighs 400 pounds.
Nashville sculptor Alan
LeQuire did extensive research
before sculpting his
masterpiece of Athena in 1982.
He aimed to as closely
approximate the original as
possible.
And one can only wonder
if it is possible
that the apostle Paul saw
something like this statue
or if, in fact, it was the
inspiration for his letters
to the officiants
about the armor of God.
The reason I say this is that
when we look closely at Athena,
we see that she wears a
crown of wisdom, symbolized
by the Sphinx on
top of her head.
She wears a golden goat
skin agis, or breastplate,
bearing the Gorgon.
She wears a belt of truth, and
she stands in sandals of peace.
This is exactly
what Paul describes
as the armor of
God in his letters
to the people of
Ephesus, Turkey.
Athena is wearing the
garments of the high priest,
all the ascension
apps of the soul,
right down to the
sandals of peace.
But in addition, Athena also
holds her famous spear, which
was made for her by Hephaestus.
At its base is a
coiled, golden serpent,
concealed by a golden shield,
Paul's shield of faith.
Now, symbolically, what
we're looking at here
is a goddess, or a priestess,
holding an axis or pillar
with a coiled serpent.
This, of course, reminds us
of Eve from the Garden of Eden
story.
So what or who, then,
is that coiled serpent?
The rising serpent
has nothing to do
with a reptile or an animal.
This is the
reptilian code again.
In eastern mystical traditions,
the coiled and rising serpent
is symbolic of rising
kundalini energy,
the primal sacred energy located
at the base of the spine.
It is symbolic because the
rising energy would appear
as a serpent wrapped
around and ascending
a staff, our spinal column.
Rising kundalini
energy feels like
an electric current
running along the spine.
The first time it
happened to me,
an awakened person touched
me, and the kundalini
ran like a serpent or
zipper up my spine.
This told me that this
energy is directly
transmittable or activate-able.
In ultimate
experiences, kundalini
produces a state
of bliss that is
beyond the perception
of the human mind
and the five senses and organs.
In this state, one has the
Promethean powers of creation,
and all things are possible.
This is the great teaching
of the esoteric traditions.
It is a spiritual awakening
that can bring forth
healing, empowerment,
enlightenment, and wisdom.
And there's not a
lot of difference
between kundalini and soul, or
atman in the Hindu tradition.
Kundalini is viewed as
the awareness of the soul.
Just as the heart is the
principal center or organ
of the circulatory
system and the brain
of the nervous system, similarly
the kundalini energy system
has various centers, or
chakras, channels, and ducks.
Kundalini energy system has
been called the human form
of the divine consciousness
or cosmic consciousness,
absolute purity, or super soul.
The yogis meditate
on super soul.
There are 72,000 subtle
channels called nadi.
And of these channels, the
three main subtle channels
are the sushumna nadi, that
is, the central channel that
extends from the base of the
spine to the top of the head;
the pingala or surya
or sun nadi, that is,
the channel that runs to the
right of the sushumna nadi;
and the ida or
chandra or moon nadi,
that is, the channel that runs
to the left of the sushumna
nadi.
The caduceus wand symbolizes
the central channel,
with the two serpents running
along it symbolizing the ida
and pingala nadas.
In the hand of Mercury,
it symbolizes his ability
to travel between
worlds and to conduct
souls between
dimensions, affirming
it is some form of a
soul transfer technology.
In annunciation paintings,
the archangel Gabriel
uses this wand to conduct
the soul of Christ
and the Holy Spirit into the
body of the Virgin Mary, who
must have experienced a
kundalini soul awakening
during this process.
It seemed obvious that the
ancient priests and priestesses
and angels must have
had access to knowledge
about spiritual awakening,
kundalini energy,
lifting the serpent, and what
it means and how it works.
It's also apparent
that kundalini
is the fuel put on the fire
Prometheus stole from the sun
and is the fuel of the
soul and its ascension.
I wonder if it's the thunder and
lightning bolt of enlightenment
or the plasma dorje
of the Tibetans.
Just like the dorje
symbolizes compassion
in action, activated
kundalini energy
and the power that
accompanies it prompts us
to be more ethical and moral.
It's the responsibility
of the individual
to use all their
power of all kinds
wisely and compassionately.
And to the Buddhists, the
key benefit of awakening
is the observer realizes and
can detach from material objects
and things as a source of
suffering and happiness.
Happiness then comes from
the inside, not the outside,
of the awakened observer, who
realizes that he or she is
part of the creation.
And with the realization,
the chains of Prometheus
are broken.
So now the question is,
how do we lift the serpent?
A place to begin is with
my daily visualization.
In my meditation
at the Parthenon,
I stand in front
of the bronze doors
and visualize the doors
opening and Athena assisting me
in lifting the serpent within.
You can do this by taking
a screen shot of Athena
or even Athena beside
the high priest.
Now after focusing and centering
your attention on the image,
intend that the crown of
wisdom be placed on your head,
that your heart
chakra will be open
and you will wear the
breastplate of righteousness,
that you will wear
the belt of truth,
and that you will stand
in the sandals of peace.
As we've explored, these
are the soul ascension apps,
or the ascension
apps of the soul.
Now you can add that you intend
for the serpent of healing
and light to rise within you.
This is the hidden app.
And as it does,
you see your skin
turning golden and
radiant, and you
intend for a golden
shield or seal of light
to surround your body.
We have just connected
our consciousness
to Athena and other
divine beings.
For visualization
purposes, here are
a few more examples of Athena
for you to contemplate.
The first example is a
statue in the National
Museum in Naples, Italy.
When I came upon this, I
was mind-blown by the power
of her cape.
Next we have Botticelli's
palace and the centaur.
This one was directed
by Masilio Ficino.
This is an important example,
as Athena wears a transparent
gown tipped with diamonds.
This is symbolic of what's
called the diamond body,
or the light body.
She also wears a diamond
on her activated third eye.
In this example of
Our Lady of Guadalupe,
Athena's golden robe is the
same as the golden light
body of the other virgin,
the Lady of Guadalupe,
who manifested, like
Jesus, in a flash.
Now, what we have
to realize here
is that this golden
cloak of Athena that
emerges from our
lifted kundalini,
or lifting the serpent, is
also the Golden Fleece sought
by Jason and the Argonauts.
In Greek mythology,
the Golden Fleece
is the fleece of the
gold-hair winged ram.
It is a symbol of
authority and sovereignty,
and it plays a central role
in the story of the hero Jason
and the Argonauts.
Here we see Jason about to
seize the Golden Fleece.
The stern of the Argo
is seen at the right.
Jason led the Argonauts,
a band of adventurers
who set out on the ship Argo,
to steal the magical Golden
Fleece of a mystical
ram, which was preserved
in Colchis on the Black Sea.
With the help of the gods
and the sorceress Medea,
Jason was able to take the
fleece from a grove protected
by a dragon.
Here with Athena beside him,
he reaches for the fleece.
On the famed Douris Cup, Athena
is shown wearing her goat skin
aegis bearing the Gorgon and a
helmet bearing a winged lioness
and is holding an
owl and her spear.
Once again, the Golden
Fleece hangs in a tree.
Now Jason is being regurgitated
by the dragon guarding
the tree, an obvious
reference to kundalini.
Peleus sent Jason to retrieve
the magical fleece of gold that
had been created
by Hermes and kept
in the grove in the
far-off land of Colchis.
Jason and the fellow Argonauts
battle the guardian dragon
of the Golden Fleece.
The serpent is
coiled like kundalini
around the sacred tree from
which the fleece hangs.
The Golden Fleece produced
by the mystic lamb
is the same as the robe
of light of Athena.
It's the robe of
glory of the soul,
and I believe it's the
light body shot with gold.
This is the original light
body of Adam and Eve.
And remember, Athena is
the re-creation of Eve.
It's the light body for
Adam and Eve and Athena,
just as it is for Padmasambhava
and [INAUDIBLE] in the Tibetan
tradition.
Interestingly, the Hebrew word
for the fruit eaten by Eve
in the Garden of
Eden that causes
them to lose their
original light body form
is a general term.
The idea that Adam
and Eve ate an apple
and then lost their
light body garment
comes from the Greek
tradition, where
it's known as the Golden
Apple of Prometheus,
or the Golden Apple
of the Hesperides.
In this painting by the Limbourg
brothers, the serpent of Eden
is coiled around a tree, and
it's a golden serpent again.
And this golden serpent
offers a golden apple to Eve.
These golden apples were
famously stolen by Hercules
as one of his 12 labors.
En route to the
golden apples, he
liberates Prometheus, the
fire-stealer, or soul guider,
from his punishment
at the hands of Zeus.
And Prometheus in
turns bequeaths
Hercules with valuable
knowledge on how to acquire
the golden apples successfully.
Here we see the
golden apple tree
in the Garden of the Hesperides
depicted on a vase from 410 BC.
A serpent entwines
around an apple tree
with its golden fruit.
The names of the figures
are written on the vase.
Two Hesperides stand on
the left side of the tree.
Their names are
Chrysothemis, which
means Golden Order, and
Asterope, or Star Face.
To the right of the apple tree
is Lipara, or Shining Skin,
who holds golden apples
in the veil of her dress
and raises the veil
off her shoulder.
The names of the goddesses
describe exactly what
they are like, a shining star,
a golden being with shining skin
who live in a golden realm.
These have to be the same
golden beings who gave Perseus
three crucial tools to defeat
the dreaded Gorgon, the Medusa,
like the one on Athena's chest.
All who looked at her
would turn to stone.
That's how ugly she was
said to be in Greek myth.
But Athena gave
Perseus her shield
that was polished like a mirror,
and Hermes gave him his sword.
However, Perseus needed
three additional tools.
They were sandals that could
enable the wearer to fly,
a bag that could hold
anything, and a cap
that made him invisible.
Obviously these are
ascension tools or apps.
It's the belief among
numerous ancient cultures
that across the ocean
towards the west
there existed a
bless isle that was
the home of the
successful souls,
or virtuous or perfect souls.
They called it the Garden of
the Hesperides, the Fortunate
Isles, the Elysian Fields,
the Garden of Eden.
Homer said these fields,
planes, or dimensions
were located on the
Western edge of the Earth
by the Stream of Oceanus,
the enormous river that
encircles the earth.
The Egyptian sought to "walk
the west," so to speak.
And as we will see
in the next episode,
so, too, did the
Native Americans,
and there is a
very special garden
in a Native American
sacred space that
marks a place where
souls came to learn
to leap into the afterlife
through a portal.
Until next time, be humble.
Let your light shine.
Namaste.
[THEME MUSIC]